[soft distant bird chirps]
(Male narrator) The video on screen
captures YouTube’s content
blocking system. I decided to include this
because it happens all the time.
[bird chirps]
We aim for fair use, and it's
frustrating when a video—
one crafted to evoke a feeling
or convey a message,
one that makes transformative
use of materials,
one that represents a good deal
of creative investment
—is blocked algorithmically by YouTube.
The algorithm, it turns out, is very good
at identifying the materials in a video.
[bubbles in water]
[flute music, sounds of typing]
(Male student) So that segment with the
damselflies
and the small blue winged olives, I
thought that was
[nature sounds, soft music]
a really, really good segment to put in
because, you know, these bugs,
on the river, these insects, have
such a finite life period.
[flute, nature sounds]
They’re born in the water and they are
literally swept up by the current.
And they spend their days
free-falling down the river,
with no control over their path.
And in a lot of ways, that’s
kind of how we feel as humans.
But something that
[flute, birds chirps]
that fishing provides us,
that feeling of stableness
and control, and being at peace.
And so these bugs, they get
above water for a few days
and they lay their eggs, and they
come back down and they die.
And it’s a short existence,
but they play this incredibly important
role in the ecosystem of the river.
And in that way, so do we as people.
[flute fades out]
(Narrator) The narration about the
damselfly comes from Thompson Long.
I picked that clip because the voice
really pulled me in and it speaks to what
Nigel Harwood identifies as
decision-making criteria behind citation,
like crediting, supporting, and engaging.
And Thompson's video extends these
with a personal connection to fishing.
[bird chirps]
Thompson is teaching as he
discusses his video sources.
The discussion of the
sources creates a layer
that operates on a
meta level to those found
in the composing space
of the video editor,
a layer to which has been
applied an educational transformation.
The YouTube algorithm, to my knowledge,
doesn't check for that.
[bird chirps]
And why should it? That's something
produced through exchange.
Reading is not a disenchanted parsing
of a fixed, original text.
It's a prosumer process, where we copy
to view and perform to read.
And that's not to say
the algorithm is unhelpful.
In fact, it's the kind of thing that might
transform the way we work with sources.
We can filter, sort, list, even cite
with the help of a machine
as we turn toward the thoughts and
feelings associated with the materials.
Why not a meta-container
for personal meaning?
(Female student) So I actually first heard
this poem through a contest
that my tenth grade class held.
And the poem that won was
"I Wondered as Lonely as a Cloud."
And I remember each day we heard the poem,
it was recited by my good friend, Heather.
This is Heather right here.
And just the way she spoke,
the way she portrayed this poem,
if I were to imagine a daffodil as a
person it would definitely be Heather.
(Second female student) This video was
filmed in Australia,
which is where I was born,
so right off the bat I felt
an emotional connection to this piece.
Throughout a lot of the video you can see
the drone that’s carrying the camera,
so I had to find a segment
that didn’t show the drone
so that it would not interfere with
the theme of birds and being free.
Something about the drone
being visible in the shot
took away from the symbolic
meaning of the poem.
[birds and soft music]
I also just couldn’t believe how
high up the drone could fly
and the beautiful sights it captured.
I felt like this video perfectly captured
the sentiment I was going for,
of feeling liberated, because of the
gradual rise of the camera
and how it looked down on the earth below.
In this instance, I don’t feel like my use
of the artist’s work devalued theirs.
Hopefully this is another
case of enhancing the value
of another artist’s work, and using
the concept of intertextuality
to create something new and beautiful.
(Narrator) The clips we just watched
all required decisions about materials.
I like that Kaitlyn "gave nods"
to her favorite movies.
And I chose that clip, because it uses
text callouts to discuss its materials.
The lack of sound in the clip allowed me
to engage with Thompson's video
and speaks to the challenges
of managing attention.
[bird chirp]
Too much typing and noise
at the same time, and it's hard to focus.
I like that Smriti chose her subject based
on a happy memory of her good friend.
And I like the way Emily points toward
her personal connection with a video
from Australia and guides us through the
difficulties (and rewards)
that came from working with the clip.
And I like how Emily's discussion
calls for new approaches
when it comes to citation
of time-based materials.
Her discussion of the
changing camera height
and an emerging sense
of liberty makes me wonder
how to link such insights
to a citational reference.
And I wonder about the
affordances of multimedia,
as Emily unpacks the clip,
bringing words back
to the citational video even
as they reveal the abstract
and ambiguous richness
and limitations
of the moving visuals beneath.
(Third female student)
Um, but I came across this and I said, oh,
you know, this is promising,
make your own lanyard.
And it wasn’t exactly what
I wanted but it did have
a song that I decided I fell in love with.
(Radio voice) Supergoodmusic.com,
the song is called "Thieves and Kings."
[song, "Thieves and Kings," plays]
So obviously this wasn’t a
very good video to be using,
but I loved the song. So I
decided to rip this video
and I used the song for my e-poem.
(Fourth female student) So whenever
I hear this piece of music
I imagine all the millions of people
in the world
all kind of focused in on their
own complicated lives
but still somehow connected.
I found this to be a
really powerful feeling,
but I wasn’t sure I would be able to find
a poem that communicated the same ideas.
So as silly as it sounds, I ended up
googling:
poetry about the vivid complexity of life,
and found exactly what I was looking for.
(Narrator) I'd like to add a category
to our citational metadata:
suggested musical accompaniment.
Those clips are just two of many
discussing musical choices.
And each reveals how an association
adds nuance to a source.
And we can make those associations
on multiple levels:
from the information-based,
machine-generated
to the conceptual, human-created;
from file names, timestamps,
and edition numbers
to whatever we might think
to link up and assign:
music, meanings, meanderings.
(Fifth female student) To open the e-poem,
I searched high and low
for the obvious footage: some clouds.
This is when I had a little breakthrough
in regards to the meaning of the poem.
It’s a very outside/in type of work,
using the analogy of a fishing trip
on the scale of the whole world.
Sometimes you’re a fisherman;
you’re in control and you see everything
clearly.
Other times, you’re the fish.
I tried to incorporate this dual-nature
into my e-poem, and I began
by using a clip that makes the viewer
seem powerful,
as if the whole world is in
his or her hands.
This series of first clips open the video
in a strong way,
immediately alerting the viewer
that there is something really
weighty and significant
discussed in this poem.
(Sixth female student)
So the next stanza here
begins with a change in speakers,
so now the mirror is a lake,
and I picked a droplet of water
that I slowed down
to be the background
for these words.
And, as the words
"a woman bends over me" fade in,
so does a clip of a woman who barely,
slowly begins to open her eyes.
And I scaled the clip of the woman
and placed her so that the water droplet
is right on her eye, and as it drops,
her eye opens.
So, um, let’s see.
[mouseclick sounds, soft music]
I can show right here as it hits,
her eyes open up with the ripple.
(Seventh female student) I added
in this clip of the bird chirping.
[music, bird chirps]
And then at the end I added in
the other
clip of a bird chirping,
after the music had faded out.
[distorted singing; bird chirps]
So it’s a completely different song;
it’s not created by a human.
It’s the song that he is referring to,
which is the bird.
[soft birds chirping; typing sounds]
(Narrator) These videos reveal the rich
metadata
that comes from capturing
decision-making about sources.
Amy shows how spending time
with materials yields insights.
Nicole links clips to
composing decisions.
Hannah points toward the relationship
between humans and nonhumans.
And all of the videos demonstrate
the transformational possibilities
of working with mixings of materials.
So what does this mean as we
move citation into the digital age?
Citations have the potential for
transforming or reinscribing values.
Harwood found motivations
for citations
were more confrontational
in the humanities.
Fulwiler and Middleton note the hold
that old logics have upon new media,
recasting potential disruptions
within linear paradigms.
Intellectual cut-throating and values
linked to fixed, linear logics:
Pass.
Perhaps if working with rich
mixings of materials holds promise,
reworking those workings with meta-level,
process-oriented citations
and responses can move us
toward further transformations.
(Second female student) I found this video
on Vimeo and it’s from Matt Wood.
And I found the visual aspect
of this video to be extremely compelling
because you get to see a
bird flying in slow motion,
which is not something you see everyday.
It’s also interesting that the bird
flies so close to the ground
and seems to stay
in place for a long time.
This video made me
think of Dickinson’s first stanza,
that describes a feeling of
being trapped and almost passive.
I did feel a sense of guilt in borrowing
this cinematographer’s work
without permission.
The work is absolutely stunning,
and I felt like not enough
credit was given to him.
However, I do not feel like
my incorporation of his work devalues it,
which is a principle of fair use.
I also feel like incorporating
his work enhanced
the meaning of the Dickinson poem,
which vibes with
the concept of "intertextuality,"
that all texts have a relationship
to each other in some way.
(Narrator) I put more of Emily's video
into the presentation
because she is thinking
deeply about use decisions.
So much of her commentary offers
the rich, human-oriented metadata
that might build upon
traditional or informational citation.
[bird chirps]
In this way, the expansion and
liberation she describes in her materials
become a mode of resistance
through creativity,
through pushing writing
in the digital age.
[bird chirp]
To evaluate the power of such pushing,
consider one final reference to YouTube:
a video entitled
YouTube copyright school.
(YouTube video narrator) Oh Russell, your
reuse of Lumpy’s content is clever,
but did you get permission for it?
Mashups or remixes of content
may also require permission
from the original copyright owner,
depending on whether or
not the use is a fair use.
[extremely rapid speech] In the United
States, copyright allows for the fair use
of copyrighted material under
certain limited circumstances
without prior permission from the owner.
Under the law, determinations of fair use
take into account the purpose and
character of the use, the nature of the
copyrighted work, the amount and
substantiality of the work use in relation
to the work as a whole, and the effect
of the use upon the potential market
for the copyrighted work. Other
jurisdictions may have similar copyright
provisions protecting fair use or fair
dealing. If you are uncertain as to
whether a specific use qualifies
as a fair use,
you should consult a qualified
copyright attorney
(Narrator) [rapidly] I decided to use
the excerpt from YouTube copyright school
[normal pace] because it's so rich
with irony.
Listen to the clip and you hear an
example of how not to use multimedia.
Too much typing and noise,
and it’s hard to focus.
The pacing of the typed display,
the pharmaceutical disclaimer voiceover,
the banging and clanging
all combine to say,
pay no attention to the way
you use the materials of others.
In fact, don’t even try it.
How to respond?
["Head Full of Doubt"
by Avett Brothers plays]
♪ There was a dream
and one day I could see it. ♪
♪ Like a bird in a cage I broke in and
demanded that somebody free it. ♪
♪ And there was a kid ♪
♪ with a head full of doubt ♪
♪ So I'll scream ‘til I die and the last
of those bad thoughts are finally out. ♪
[music fades out]